Welcome thank you wonderful God people in this video.
We're going to pause the game to do this at this stage because as something that's happening which starts
off awesome but it's actually a little annoying.
I'll show you what I mean.
If I play the game right now I've got the mouse hidden right so I can look around and not be distracted
by the mouse but my screen is locked in tiny mode and I can't reach that button up there that one can't
reach it.
I want a big thing if I could pause the game.
Maybe I could get the mouse back.
So let's do that before we start building this pause menu.
Let's think about what we want.
So if this is our game screen here's a little menu with some buttons and you know it depends on what
operating system the buttons will be in a different place.
Here's what I want to happen.
I'm going to bring up.
Pause.
We're going to have some techs up here that says something like option menu or paused or something like
that.
Underneath I'm going to have a bunch of options.
I want some check boxes on the right and some options like table full screen.
What else you want to quit is a good one.
Customize and I could add more as I go now adding more as we go.
Is pretty easy.
I've how to do that goofy and to be honest I'm probably going to move quit and customize it around.
But this is my basic layout Now one more thing I want to happen is when I go into the pause menu I want
the mouse to reappear.
So here's a mouse.
And the mouse is back.
So when we pause there is a mouse and when we unpause there is no mouse.
Basically we like cats.
We like to have a mouse in our paws.
There will be no charge for that joke.
Its free and included with the course.
You're very welcome.
All right we have a basic lay out here.
So what I think I am looking at is a pop up right we've seen pop ups before we looked at them.
High slices.
And this is a label that's nice and easy.
Maybe a rich text label and then we've got here.
Looks to me like a grid and the grid and the label are split vertically so what do I have.
Well I have a pop up.
I have a V box container within which is a label and a grid container.
And no I don't know why I'm switching from Upper to lowercase randomly either within the grid container.
We have a bunch of labels and check boxes or check buttons when they're called.
I will check what they called me in there and it just really a label check button label check button
and as many as we like and that is the design.
So let's get in so got to actually start making it.
First things first let's make a new scene.
No if my seeing is going to be a canvas why because I want this to present on screen.
No matter what else is happening at a certain location.
So ignore all position information ignore cameras just put it here on the viewport.
I recall it pause many and to capitalize em for menus.
Make it a little easier.
And underneath that and putting a pop up so the pause menu will be visible at all times but the pop
up menu below it won't remember pop up menus are hidden by default.
And if you want to work on them you have to unhide them just because it's unhidden now doesn't mean
they'll be visible in code.
If I put this pause menu in game now it will not shut.
You have to bring up pop pop up in code.
Okay so we have a pop up which I'm going to put with a full rectangle anchor and in the centre and I'm
going to have to tweak this later but this is just you know where I'm stuck with Within this I will
put a centre container and that's going to be the parent for everything else within the centre container.
Let's put a V box container and within that just put a label at this point we're probably going to have
to start playing with themes.
What we call this.
I think maybe option then splits as a good thing right.
We could call it pause men or something else and that's just not going to work.
Let's make a theme.
When I go back up to pop up and I'm just going to put the theme here.
If I put the theme here everything beneath it will follow that theme.
So a new thing.
Click on the thing and before I go any further I'm actually in a save this scene as default thing.
Why am I saving it now.
Well it makes it much easier to work with.
And now I can use this theme elsewhere.
Also if I've saved the theme rather than just let it run here I can now switch theme in script.
Right so we can have different Greece we can have different skins for our games all kinds of fun things
we could do.
Let's start with the default font.
So a new dynamic font that open that font and go to load under fonts.
Kenny bot.
There it is.
We now have a font but there's no size to it so let's give a default size headers 20 pixels feel feels
pretty good to me we can always change.
Let's go back.
Next thing I need within the box container is a grid container
is my grid container and this is where our labels and buttons are going to be.
So are some of the label and this label is going to say Tomball full screen.
Now back up to the grid container.
A child of the grid contain a checkbox.
There it is.
Yeah.
Okay.
Problem we have is that everything is one column.
Why back up to great container.
I've said it to one column.
Let's set it to two.
Awesome.
Now I could just change the check box but I have a theme.
Go back to pop up.
Click on theme and if it were already in scenes so let's go into gooey and graphics and you'll see here
there's a handful of Kenny fonts that I've put in haven't put a bunch of them just a small handful that
are going to use so I am going to use X for checked and this empty square for unchecked.
I want to save that.
Go back out again.
That should look good.
Great select agree containments make a new label.
This one can say customize character which we don't yet having game but we will have a game and would
put a button for it now and let's put another check box in there.
And let's put quit in as well so label as a bell.
There we go and check box and this label is going to say quick game.
Few things you notice.
Well it's hard to tell.
This title menu option menu from everything else so have changed that minute to nothing is actually
centred and free.
We've got all white and no background.
Well let's fix the problems one at time.
First let's make this option bigger.
So let's scroll down to custom fonts.
Click on the label custom font and make a new dynamic font overwriting the field somewhere load the
same font in.
We only have one font that's easy and then on settings it was 40.
Rates are much bigger.
Next thing I do is I a line.
This to the centre.
Now we can align these separately so if we wanted to take all three of these and apply them to the right
or to the centre or we could fill whatever you think looks good.
I think I want mine on the right.
Not actually sure.
I put mine on the right for now.
I think that's looks good now that's great too to sent a container and I want to anchor this to the
full rectangle and more importantly I need to centre it back and that's look much better.
However I knew the background.
So let's add in a colour rectangle as a background and I want this to be a direct child of the container
but above the V box container.
That's important because if I put it below here the colour is going to be on top of all the text and
buttons and this can be annoying.
Alright you need a collar let's say just off black is nice.
Great colour now.
Annoying things colour rectangles and are found is.
I can set this full rectangle leave and come back and it'll reset itself.
I think I need to give it a minimum size so let's do that.
What's your mission.
What's your size right now.
5 16 by two forty three OK.
So I'm thinking by the 440.
By 260 sounds good.
So for 40 to 60 you know there should be the minimum size minimum size of 440 by to.
And now Carla rectangle is going to have to have the same in size 440 by 260.
Great.
Let's put you back in the centre.
And that is starting to look pretty good.
Now we can mess around with it.
But for now that's a good start.
One thing I do want to do I like this option many semitransparent So let's just take the Alpha and drop
it to about a hundred forty six point fifty two.
That feels like a good round solid number the kind that any sane person would come up with.
OK.
I don't know why I came up with that.
We could keep tweaking this and playing with this but this is a good start.
I'm kind of happy with this for now.
However what I have right now.
Angela save it.
What I have right now is a pop up menu with no script.
There is nothing that's going to call this.
So let's make a new script.
And I'm going to put this in scraps.
As you probably know by now and just call it pause me and that's all good.
I want pause to be bound to escape.
So before I get any further I'm going to project settings input map and a miller put escape and then
add that as a key and the key is that you know what that's a terrible name let's call it pause pause
you add that.
And at the key escape.
All right.
So let's begin with input.
Amscot say if input dot is action pressed
pause.
Okay.
What I'm looking for here is the ability to pause the game for that.
I'm going to use get tree.
I will look at get tree in again a seen tree and I can scroll down we have down here where they go.
There we are paused.
OK.
Is paused or just paused and that's what I need.
Get tree.
Dot paused.
He calls you going to fix this in a minute I'll get what this is going to do is stop all process and
physic processes.
Okay they will just stop until Pausa switch off.
Fun fact if I press this I will pause the game and be unable to unpause it because of a couple of things.
The first is if I look at any node down here you'll see paws inherit all child nodes are going to inherit
whatever I do here.
Okay so if I pause everything beneath it will pause.
So in level 1.
In fact in the default.
Also I'm going to click on this scene here and go into a little template.
I'm going to add a pause.
Many subs cannot.
In instance n pause many.
And what I want to do on pause menu is go to process.
This means pause menu will keep running even if nothing else does.
And that means that I can press the button.
However look right here I have nothing here to unpause.
There's a few ways we could change that but I'd like to pass this to you.
I'd like you to toggle pause.
In other words if the game is paused and I press Escape I'd like it unpause if it's unpause and I press
Escape.
I want your report so whatever is happening right now for press pause do the opposite.
So pause the video.
Come up with a solution you have it with and when you come back I'll show you my solution.
And welcome back.
It's a few different ways we could do this right.
We could say if pause equals truth then do this or we could do this.
Check this out not get tree dot paused.
In other words whatever this is do the opposite.
One line of code.
Let me show you how that works.
I'm going to Pressplay.
Pause pause pause unpause pause unpause.
I'm so happy right now.
Look at that one line of code to do the whole thing.
If you have a booleans state truffaut's state one thing that can only be one of two options.
Just putting this exclamation point.
This not in front of it.
We'll just invert it.
It's such a lovely little trick.
Now I want to actually bring up the pop up menu.
Let's go back into this scene so we have the right script.
You know to close that one and I'm make a new function called toggle pause menu.
Pause menu.
COOK No.
I almost got it right.
Menu counselee an talil Pause me and here's me.
If you get tree dot paused.
Pop up got shut.
Else pop up.
DOT.
Right.
Now there's fewer few we could do this but this feels nice and clean.
I also need to bring the mouse back.
I'll show you why right.
Let's say I bring this up.
Pause again.
Here's my mouse menu.
Oh no there's no mouse when to make the mouse appear.
Right.
But that's looking pretty darn lovely.
OK.
So let's bring the mouse back.
Well we've already looked at how to bring in a mouse right because we do it right at the beginning of
the game.
So let's do the same thing here input.
Set in mouse mode.
And I need input dot mouse mode visible.
That's exactly.
And now where do you get that line and move it down here instead of mouse mode visible.
I want to mouse mode captured.
OK.
Let's see how that works.
Pause the game here is my mouse.
Boop.
Awesome.
These are different sizes.
That's a little annoying I can change that later.
And now I can make this bigger.
Now that's not in the middle.
That's okay I can fix that later too.
But we're getting on to a good start.
Okay.
Last thing I want to do before we start worrying about buttons and polished all the rest is rename these.
They're little more sensible so I'll say fullscreen.
Customize.
And quit.
And now I need to connect all three of these to the the actual scripture when we get a mode on pressed
can to pause menu.
So on fullscreen pressed what to do here is news.
Oh s stopped window.
Full screen.
Oh yes.
Means operating system window fullscreen and I could set this a true.
All I could go not o s dot.
Window full screen.
Let's see how that works.
We also have a customized button right now.
This does nothing.
Let's put in a quick one.
Was this going to do is going to do get tree dot quit.
Now.
A pause again.
Got to quit.
I quit the game.
Pause the game.
I'm going to customize.
It does nothing.
Emily All fullscreen a topless full screen and I can pause the game looks pretty good.
It looks kind of awesome in fact.
Which brings us to the end of this video.
In this video we looked at how to use get tree paused and a simple and nifty way to toggle a billion
in code just using an exclamation point or an exclamation mark depending on what part of the world you're
from.
It's looking really good so far.
Did you come up with a different solution.
Does your pause menu look better than mine which let's face it is entirely possible.
How is your game looking so far.
Share your progress.
I'm dying to see what you guys come up with an excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.